.TH 
.BR chruby (1) 
\-\- Changes the current Ruby.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCchruby\fR [<RUBY|VERSION|system>] [<RUBY_OPTS>]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fIRUBY|VERSION\fP
    Change current Ruby based on fuzzy matching of Ruby by name.
.PP
\fIsystem\fP
    Change current Ruby to system Ruby.
.PP
\fIRUBY_OPTS\fP
    Additional optional arguements to pass to Ruby.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC-h\fR, \fB\fC--help\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Changes the current Ruby version by correctly setting the appropriate environment variables.
.PP
https://github.com/postmodern/chruby/blob/master/README.md
.UR https://github.com/postmodern/chruby/blob/master/README.md
.UE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List available Rubies:
    $ chruby
       ruby\-1.9.3\-p362
       jruby\-1.7.2
       rubinius\-2.0.0\-rc1
.PP
Select a Ruby:
    $ chruby 1.9.3
    $ chruby
     * ruby\-1.9.3\-p362
       jruby\-1.7.2
       rubinius\-2.0.0\-rc1
.PP
Switch to JRuby in 1.9 mode:
    $ chruby jruby \-\-1.9
.PP
Switch back to system Ruby:
    $ chruby system
.PP
Switch to an arbitrary Ruby on the fly:
    $ chruby_use /path/to/ruby
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI/opt/rubies\fP
    Primary default Ruby install location.
.PP
\fI~/.rubies/\fP
    Secondary default Ruby install location.
.PP
\fI/etc/profile.d/chruby.sh\fP
    Application environment settings for chruby.
.PP
\fI~/.gem/$ruby/$version\fP
    Default gem install location.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fIPATH\fP
    Updates the PATH environment variable to include Rubies and RubyGems bin/ directories.
.PP
\fIGEM_HOME\fP
    Default repository location for gem installation.
.PP
\fIGEM_PATH\fP
    A colon\-separated list of gem repository directories.
.PP
\fIGEM_ROOT\fP
.PP
\fIRUBY_ROOT\fP
.PP
\fIRUBY_ENGINE\fP
    Name of Ruby implementation.
.PP
\fIRUBY_VERSION\fP
    Ruby version number.
.PP
\fIRUBYOPT\fP
    Optionally set if additional Ruby options are given.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Postmodern postmodern.mod3\@gmail.com
.MT postmodern.mod3@gmail.com
.ME .
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ruby (1), 
.BR gem (1)