.TH 
.BR chruby-exec (1) 
\-\- Run a command with selected Ruby.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCchruby-exec\fR RUBY [RUBYOPTS] \-\- COMMAND
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fIRUBY\fP
    Change current Ruby based on fuzzy matching of Ruby by name.
.PP
\fIRUBYOPTS\fP
    Additional optional arguements to pass to Ruby.
.PP
\fICOMMAND\fP
    Command to run under the selected Ruby.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC-h\fR, \fB\fC--help\fR
.PP
\fB\fC-v\fR, \fB\fC--version\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run a command with the selected Ruby version by correctly setting the appropriate environment variables.
.PP
https://github.com/postmodern/chruby/blob/master/README.md
.UR https://github.com/postmodern/chruby/blob/master/README.md
.UE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run the command \fB\fCgem update\fR under JRuby:
    $ chruby\-exec jruby \-\- gem update
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI/opt/rubies\fP
    Primary default Ruby install location.
.PP
\fI~/.rubies/\fP
    Secondary default Ruby install location.
.PP
\fI/etc/profile.d/chruby.sh\fP
    Application environment settings for chruby.
.PP
\fI~/.gem/$ruby/$version\fP
    Default gem install location.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fIPATH\fP
    Updates the PATH environment variable to include Rubies and RubyGems bin/ directories.
.PP
\fIGEM_HOME\fP
    Default repository location for gem installation.
.PP
\fIGEM_PATH\fP
    A colon\-separated list of gem repository directories.
.PP
\fIGEM_ROOT\fP
.PP
\fIRUBY_ROOT\fP
.PP
\fIRUBY_ENGINE\fP
    Name of Ruby implementation.
.PP
\fIRUBY_VERSION\fP
    Ruby version number.
.PP
\fIRUBYOPT\fP
    Optionally set if additional Ruby options are given.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Postmodern postmodern.mod3\@gmail.com
.MT postmodern.mod3@gmail.com
.ME .
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR chruby (1), 
.BR ruby (1), 
.BR gem (1)